In this video, I want to show you how we can still use arrays with multiple different types of values
inside them.
So let's flip back over to our code editor and once again, write out a quick example.
So I'm going to put in a new comment down here that says Flexible Types.
And then I'm going to declare a new array called important dates like so.
So this is going to be an array that contains some different important date values.
Maybe some of them are going to be instances of date objects, and maybe some of them are going to be
strings that contain like a date inside them.
So in other words, I want to have two different types inside this array.
Some are going to be instances of data objects, some are going to be strings.
So to do so, I could simply write out a new date and then like an actual string in here.
So 20, 30, maybe ten, ten.
Like, so if I now hover over important dates, I'll see an updated little type annotation here.
So in this case, notice that little pipe operator right there, we've spoken about that very briefly
before.
That's kind of like an or statement for types.
So this can be read as saying this is going to be an array that contains elements that are a string
or a date.
So everything inside this array can be treated as a string or a date object.
Now it is important to understand this annotation right here.
If you ever happen to say only, initialize the array with date objects and we hover over this once
again.
TypeScript now thinks that this array will only contain dates.
So if we wanted to specifically say that this array can contain multiple different types, we would
once again have to add in a manual annotation here so I could put in a colon.
And then just like that syntax we saw in that tooltip, we would say date or string and then the square
brackets right after.
And so now once again, if I hover over important dates, we've overridden type inference and said specifically
this array contain can contain either type of value.
So now right after that, we could do important dates, push and add in a string.
Well, let's do a really string, real string here.
So 20, 30, ten, ten.
And important dates don't push new date like so.
And as you might guess, if we now try to put in a new value that is just like a plane number, we will
see an error because that is neither a string nor a date object.
Now, as we mentioned before, you will want to put in this annotation if you ever do not initialize
the array with a date literal and a string literal.
Alternatively, if you initialize it with an empty array, you will want to have the annotation on there
as well.
If we don't put on that annotation with an empty array, we're always going to end up with an array
of the any type which we always want to avoid as much as possible.
All right.
So that's how we put in multiple different types of values into one single array.
Now, let's take a quick pause right here and talk about where we are going to actually make use of
these type two arrays.
And as you might guess, it's probably going to be everywhere.
So quick pause and I'll see you in just a minute.